[Applause]
okay all right everyone howdy hello and
welcome to the IPA FS weekly call where
we get to learn the great things are
happening in our committee and stuff
that we're building um today let's see
so before we begin if everyone can just
um before we again if everyone can just
fill out the IP our weekly Call list so
if you're attending to call just put
your handle in under the attendees
section we don't have any announcements
for today so we'll begin the main
presentation but before we begin I want
to thank Ollie for taking notes thank
you ollie
and today's main presenter is Michael
Rogers and he's going to talk about
github ecosystem metric the project he's
been working on the past several weeks
so Michael please take it away
cool during the broadcast now let me
know when you can see it cool okay I
think I'm sorry awesome
awesome okay um let's go to content okay
so this is going to be a little bit kind
of
anyway so the system that we built uses
a gh archive and so this that this is
when they get up with a but basically
every hour they put out a file right and
it looks like this and it has so it's
it's an hour of public data so every
single piece of metal is metadata for
every single action that anyone takes
across all of github public resources so
any push any at people watching the repo
people commenting on things anything
like that there's only a couple things
that it doesn't really pick up like if
you you know emoji thumbs up something
it doesn't pick that up but it's it's a
very large amount of data so if you go
back like maybe two or three years you
end up with like a couple terabytes
worth of data but because of
rate-limiting and a bunch of other stuff
this is really like the only effective
way to look at entire ecosystems across
github so what we really wanted to do
was like be able to query this in a
saner way and so what we devised was
essentially the system where first we
can like identify repos and the way we
do that is like you know we might want
to look at a dependency graph for all of
the repos and ipfs and so that would
give us all of the entire dependency
Network and then we want to sort of look
at all of that repo set across all of
github archive or we might use bigquery
or something like that and like with
bigquery we could actually look at they
have a snapshot that they date I think
like monthly of every single file in
every master branch across github so
that would allow us to say like oh like
what does the doc Rica's look like so
what are all the repos that have a
docker file in them things like that so
you can be a really useful information
of that bigquery is quite expensive
though so we really need to to limit
those queries like that query to query
those docker files it's probably like
$15 to run it like once so we identify
repos in one step and then we basically
we want to get a filtered set of data
and I'm going to explain how that system
works a bit here so we use lambda and
what we do is that we ask lambda for a
month of data so that's
that lambda function is called filter
months and what that ends up doing is
creating between 28 and 31 requests
depending on the month to filter day and
then filter day is going to make 24
requests to outside to another lambda
function called no sorry it's not
filtered it's called pluck and so what
pluck is going to do is um it's it's
first going to check like do we have
that github archive file for that hour
in s3 if not we're going to go and get
it and then once we put it in s3 we use
this thing called s3 select an s3 select
actually it allows you to do like sequel
queries on either CSV or JSON data and
that data can even be lines of JSON in a
gzip file so it actually works perfectly
for good of archives except every couple
months some people do a gigantic push to
github with a lot of file updates and
even the metadata about the push is
larger than one Meg so what happens is
that this entire plucks function crack
like an onion uncatchable way and so
when that happens we we saw back to this
thing called fallback and this is a
much slower version of s3 implemented
and nodejs that just does the exact same
operation and so what happens is that
with both of these what they're going to
do is they're gonna return a just just
to the attributes out of the objects
that we want individual turday okay so
coming back to this initial piece here
when we call filter month we also give
it what we what we call sort of a filter
and so that has that's like an encoded
seymour object basically and we stored
in s3 so we don't have to pass it to the
lambda functions because they can
actually get too big to be passed around
between the lambda functions of the time
so that Seymour object has not only just
these flex values in it but also any
repositories that want to filter out so
what pluck des will do after I guess
this plug set is then filter out all of
the repository sorry I'm
all of the information just for the
repositories that it cares about and
then filters day is going to store that
in s3 so what you end up getting from in
this filter month request actually so
it's like oh is you end up getting just
a bunch of files for every single hour
of data that you ended up filtering and
plugging and then we do another one
another lambda function called scan cat
and that can catch all those files
together and stores the new value in s3
so when we go and get a year's worth of
data we basically just do a month at a
time a month is going to generate
between 700 and 1400 lambda functions
depending on caching and those are all
gonna run in parallel so if it has to
hit plug fall back it'll take a little
bit longer because you're you're off the
whole sets gonna go as slow as the
slowest request but you know in about
like less than 10 seconds we'll get back
an entire month's worth of data and then
we do a month at a time
I would love to pull a year at a time we
got the lamda rate limit increased but
then as soon as the rate limit was
increased for lambda we noticed that
there's also in a three rate limit so
now we were blowing out the s3 right
limit once we started to actually use
our new landal in it so we're trying to
figure that out hopefully we would
eventually just be able to do a year at
a time and then we could pull a year in
about ten seconds but as it stands you
know we can get you know three years
worth of data in less than ten minutes
so it's pretty fine but the nice thing
about this system is that because we're
taking a c-more object here we're not
limited in terms of like how many repos
that we can query for we can literally
filter for a hundred thousand
repositories it would take a little bit
longer because each of those are gonna
have to code this giant sieve or object
at its s3 but you know we can do really
really huge sets of data that's one of
the reasons why we couldn't use some of
the off-the-shelf stuff like big queries
big query also has all this activity
data in it and other than this being
cost prohibitive there's a limit on the
size of the single query that you can do
so being that there's just a single
query we can't like jam you know hundred
thousand repos in there so we'd have to
chump through them and then it would be
insanely expensive so yeah
this is basically how we can this allows
us to pull in a very reduced data set of
just the values that we care about for
just the repositories that we care about
system so what ends up happening now now
that we have this system is that we as
long as we can basically turn an
ecosystem into repositories we can then
filter out a datasets for those and then
in just a matter of like actually
processing the metrics and this is sort
of the stage that we're at now what
we're trying to figure out useful data
that we can get from this right so you
can do things like we can get the unique
like people that are engaged in
different kinds of activity or all
activity so we could say who are all the
people that committed to this eco system
who are all the people that engaged in
anyway so there even in you know sort of
issue comments and stuff like that so
you can assume that they're like users
of the system you can also just look at
you know the overall level of activity
right like it's this Justin coming down
or is it still sort of you know rising
in terms of overall activity and then
most importantly you can take all of
that data and you can start to look at
like well what is the growth rate of
that ecosystem how much is is activity
and unique users growing over different
time slices do you want to look at so
yeah this is sort of what we're doing
with the system now the main reason that
I wanted to sort of show people the
system and how it works is that it's a
little bit different than traditional
metric systems where you log the metrics
in some database and then you can do
queries on it we actually have to you
know go and filter this giant data set
from github and and then get interesting
metrics out of it from there but with it
we can look at not just our ecosystems
right so for ipfs and let p2p and all
these other systems but we can look at
ecosystems that were interested in maybe
getting involved in right as we're doing
package manager work we can say like
okay well what is the growth of docker
files compared to package JSON files and
how many people are engaged in those and
one of the interesting things here is
that when you look at different
ecosystems you know the number of
packages and a package manager may be
growing or you know just the number of
docker files may be growing in different
repositories but there may be really big
differences and the number of users of
those ecosystems when I did this
analysis four or five years ago using
much worse tools just separating out
to back-end JavaScript from front-end
JavaScript what there was like a
noticeable difference in the number of
people engaged in those front-end
projects so it you could sort of
correlate that to there are more people
using those actually there's more users
of these projects than the backend
projects so this gives us like really
interesting sort of competitive analysis
between different open source ecosystems
as well so yeah I think at this point I
can open it up for questions
this isn't like a gigantic talk yeah
let's go questions probably shown me
myself ok thank you very much and for
those who have questions if you just put
it in a chat box that would be great so
are there any questions I have a
question it seems like you are at the
point where you're what if that is just
it was clean enough for you to analyze
have you seen it being of interest in
terms of people who are contributing and
activity on ipfs uh it's a little bit
too early to walk away with like really
big takeaways we're still sort of
refining how we do the repo
identification piece so like right now
for repo ID I'm using the library's io
data and there's a pretty big
discrepancy between like github
dependency what so if you go into your
github repo there's like a dependents
tab and you can see all the repositories
I'm on your repository there's a lot
more repos there than in the libraries
io data probably because libraries IO is
doing like a really complicated
operation where they're trying to look
at repo data's that is in the package
JSON and then correlate it back through
the dependency graph but not everybody
has that metadata up-to-date whereas
like github you know has all of the
repos themselves so they know if a
package.json dependent on that package
name somewhere they can even pull
you know repositories that are depending
on it that aren't published in any way
so that's really useful
um and so yeah and but but the problem
with that data from github is that
there's no API so then poking them to
try to get them to give me that data in
some usable way without me like
literally writing a scraper through the
website and bi yeah so I've looked at
sort of like looking at sort of the data
system in our ecosystem one interesting
thing is that so far the the projects
that are in a similar space to us I'm a
very similar sort of curves and they're
grow so it looks like you know the space
that we're in the sort of the
centralization space is growing it
really at a particular rate and we're
all growing in it really well so that
was one interesting kind of takeaway but
I'm sort of waiting to get more data and
to refine our repo identification before
I make a lot of other judgements about
it also like I really want to look at
more mature ecosystems and see sort of
like where their growth hit particular
spikes and what the different curves
went and see if you can find
correlations between them and then we
can look at our growth and say like okay
what what phase of adoption are we in in
which phase of maturity are we in in
terms of because in belleville we don't
have great stuff on that yet we
literally like just got the system sort
of working and then every time that it
works then we like make some make some
improvement to make it a little bit
faster and then that that blows out a
new rate limit that we didn't know about
somewhere and then we hunt that down and
then add a new layer of caching and that
blows out some you rate limit because
things are faster so a lot of sort of
like if you look at the repository
there's just like a lot of churn in the
code and the methods that were using to
get to something relatively stable now
essentially like at at the filter month
phase there's effectively like a rate
limit or inside of it that tries to
estimate the potential number of SLAM to
functions that it'll call and you can
basically just change that this question
is very similar um phone Jonny Quest
so many insight so far yeah yeah I think
I kind of covered that um
not yeah covered as much as there-there
is so far my man insight is the
LEM de is like super powerful and can do
this kind of stuff like really fast like
if you're running this locally on your
own machine it would take like a month
you can do it like a lot quicker however
there are really really nasty
undocumented like fairly undocumented
rail everything and also um this is like
not a common use case in the lamda world
like bursting from zero to thousands of
functions and back down to zero is not
as common so we're hitting a lot of like
you know weird things with that next
question from ollie have you got any
exciting headline stats out of it so far
any surprises and I guess that would be
um not yet because you're still any
early phases I'm analyzing the data
right oh yeah so right now I'm trying to
just provide the data to the projects
and then I'll let the project's decide
that what they what kind of top-line
numbers they want to pull out of that um
I will just sort of caution generally
against the top-line numbers like all of
these are estimates right like not
everyone not all of our users engage in
a public repository not all of our users
public repository you know we we also
like don't have a great way right now to
to look at the NGO ecosystem right like
there's a package minute situation it's
pretty bad
so like the the dependency Network stuff
that we do for for JavaScript projects
just doesn't work there so we're gonna
have to figure out something like in
bigquery analyzing every go file in
github and trying to figure out if they
are using IP FS inside of a go file to
identify repositories so we're sort of
we're missing some data there so we're
in we're in the states now where we're
just kind of trying to refine it where I
wouldn't want to pull out top-line
numbers I think that the most thing we
want to pull right now is just growth
rate right like the growth rates you
know if we're if we're not sampling
enough or we're potentially over
sampling if we compare that to another
ecosystem the same biases should remain
and so we should be able to compare
growth rates at least even if we even if
we know that you know these numbers
aren't going to give us an exact number
of people all the time or sorry
very a completely accurate number of
people I think there's also something
that we need to think about where the
more that you sort of traverse into a
package of dependency Network the more
that you're sort of in passive usage
rather than active usage right like like
people didn't actively say hey install
ipfs for my thing they installed
something that it's all IDs or installed
in I guess clients into it and so you
may also want to separate that out you
won't may want to say like you know just
one level of depth or maybe two levels
of depth and that depth graph is as far
as we want to go and and the rest of
that we're going to kind of have grayed
out
Yeah right now we're figuring out like
the best ways to look at this data and
slice it up and yeah I wouldn't want to
pull out a complaint number of like
number of people right now excellent
thank you next questions from Rob
Brackett are there any specific uses
we're planning to make from all this
info so I'm trying to feed some data
right now into the process that we're
doing around package managers I really
want to find good ways to measure these
ecosystems so that we can provide into
the decision-making process that data we
also just had a sort of a quick metrics
print where we're just trying to get a
bunch of data out of a few different
projects so that gave us some basic info
on on the packages in the in the org for
Lupita Pei PFS and IP LD and so we were
able to see like okay like what what is
the further growth rate right now in
just activity on our own project stuff
like that but yeah where we the whole
sort of like across the organization the
sort of metrics in KPI situation right
now is like just log data like figure
out how we get data and then and then we
have once we have a lot of data then we
can start to talk about the best ways to
use it and analyze it so so yeah this is
like a lot of what this presentation is
meant to do is to open up the
possibility of questions that you can
ask about data because now we can
capture this entire ecosystem data and
please sort of feed these kinds of
questions back into the process and we
can improve the tools and run these
regressions again and start to feed more
and more metrics and data into the
the overall process um next comment is
from Jim Pitts he said I'd love to see
some cohort analysis see how many people
are contributing and then turning it out
[Music]
churning churning sorry turning it out
viii you are and I engine turning
turning out I'm sorry what I'm like
confused about the question sorry it's
just the comments oh yeah analyzing the
contents of dr. files um so we would use
bigquery for that so bigquery can look
at the contents of all of the doctor
files and on github and then from that
we would get a set of repos so if we if
we wanted to have some kind of matching
inside of the docker file then yeah we
that would tell us like you know if a
doctor file has this thing in it tell me
about it or tell me the repo name or
tell me the file or whatever and then we
could then do a filter analysis across
all of those repos in the archive but
this the system itself doesn't have the
contents of all the repositories in it
bigquery is quite good at that and yeah
we replacing that would be pretty
massive and I mean and not a huge win
for us because the the types of queries
that we need to do on the actual file
contents right now are pretty minimal
like you know we just need to see
something matches usually so we can you
know pay you know fifteen twenty dollars
or whatever a query get that data and
then have the set of repositories and
then have like this it's much more cost
effective system to look at all the meta
analysis about those repositories yeah
hope that makes awesome those are all
the questions are there any more
questions
that's blooms to me about it if we don't
have any questions then we can end early
cool ah no thanks I'm Andrew could this
be used to cluster package data together
what do you mean by that
Andrew wanted to talk for a second there
we go sorry I just had to plug my mic in
No so what I was thinking there was
rather than just like a repo that has a
match or some content in a file but like
are there kind of clusters of
repositories that all say use this these
five packages or and what mister then
cross over of like other group packages
that would be often used together to
kind of kind of highlight collections of
similar or shared bits of code
so like ipfs libraries always being
required along with these kinds of
things maybe probably lit p2p related
stuff for example but also can we
highlight similar kind of groups of
types of dependencies that people are
using with ipfs to get an idea of where
there might be almost like an amazon
recommendation for stuff that is closely
related to a given set of packages and
I'm really mostly interested in ipfs
packages particularly there yeah you
couldn't use this for that but I think
you could just use the github API right
so well okay first you have to crawl
that dumb dependency thing that they
don't have an API for but when who found
all the the repos and github that had
been actually depended on it they
then you would just look at their
package a son and then start to
basically log all of the packages and
see what are the kind of top ones that
were required alongside and then you
could use this system to then do an
analysis of those repositories and find
people that are the most active as well
so you can start to like include the IP
FS you could system alongside stuff that
it is used with it and then do an
ecosystem analysis evolve the people in
activity across both of them and see
what the correlations are there that
would be that would be interesting Oh
any more questions well seems like
that's it thank you Michael for your
presentation and I will see everyone
next week the next Monday's women it's
ipfs recall um have a great week take
care bye